#summary A simple changelog to keep track of what is changing.

= Changelog =

This list only includes major highlights or breaking changes. Check the [https://code.google.com/p/osmdroid/source/list changes list] for full commit logs.

== 4.2 (upcoming) ==

  * Added experimental HW-acceleration support. See issue 413.
  * Issue 426, issue 479, issue 489, issue 520, issue 521.

== 4.1 ==

  * Fix issue with OSM tile servers rejecting GETs due to missing user-agent. See issue 515.
  * Issue 417, issue 477, issue 489, issue 491, issue 498, issue 500, issue 507.

== 4.0 ==

  * Added compatibility layer for Google Maps API v2.
  * Added !BitmapPool to reuse !MapTiles and prevent constant Bitmap allocation during scrolling.
  * Added fix to ignore !MapView 'clickable' setting that can prevent scrolling.
  * Added http client factory to !MapTileDownloader.
  * Some changes to clean up the !MapController. See issue 471.
  * Changed zoom animations to match pinch-to-zoom animations for consistency and to allow overlays to prevent their contents from scrolling. See issue 453.
  * Issue 298, issue 408, issue 427, issue 437, issue 438, issue 441, issue 442, issue 447, issue 450, issue 451, issue 483.

== 3.0.10 ==

  * Added limited scrolling area
  * Added simple setable min/max zoomlevel on the !MapView that overrides the values returned by the tile provider.
  * Pinch-to-zoom is relative to the pinch point, not the center of the screen.
  * New samples project with modern Fragments.