#summary How to include osmdroid in your project

== Prerequisites ==

Before doing anything make sure you read the [Prerequisites] page.

== Using Maven ==

If you are using Maven then adding osmdroid is easy. See [HowToMaven] for details.

== Using a jar ==

You can include osmdroid in your project by downloading the latest jar file from the downloads page and placing it into your libs folder.

You will also need the slf4j-android jar from http://www.slf4j.org/android/ in your libs folder. See [Prerequisites].

== Adding a !MapView ==

You can add a MapView to your xml layout using:
{{{
    <org.osmdroid.views.MapView
        android:id="@+id/mapview"
        android:layout_width="match_parent"
        android:layout_height="match_parent"
        tilesource="Mapnik"
        />
}}}

This will allow you to configure the tile source imagery for your MapView but not much else.

However, for more control over your MapView, you will want to create a MapView programmatically.

{{{
    @Override
    public View onCreateView(LayoutInflater inflater, ViewGroup container, Bundle savedInstanceState)
    {
        mResourceProxy = new ResourceProxyImpl(inflater.getContext().getApplicationContext());
        mMapView = new MapView(inflater.getContext(), 256, mResourceProxy);
        return mMapView;
    }
}}}

== Creating a tile provider chain ==

One of the features of osmdroid is the customizable tile provider chain. This provides the ability to mix and match various tile provider modules to create a specific tile retrieval strategy. The MapTileProviderBasic tile provider provides a default set of tile provider modules that includes a file cache, an archive provider, and a download provider. For most users this covers the basics, but you can build you own custom tile provider chain.

{{{
final Context context = getActivity();
final Context applicationContext = context.getApplicationContext();
final IRegisterReceiver registerReceiver = new SimpleRegisterReceiver(applicationContext);

// Create a custom tile source
final ITileSource tileSource = new XYTileSource("Mapnik", ResourceProxy.string.mapnik, 1, 18, 256, ".png", "http://tile.openstreetmap.org/");

// Create a file cache modular provider
final TileWriter tileWriter = new TileWriter();
final MapTileFilesystemProvider fileSystemProvider = new MapTileFilesystemProvider(registerReceiver, tileSource);

// Create an archive file modular tile provider
MapTileFileArchiveProvider fileArchiveProvider = new MapTileFileArchiveProvider(registerReceiver, tileSource, new IArchiveFile[] { gemfFileArchive });

// Create a download modular tile provider
final NetworkAvailabliltyCheck networkAvailabliltyCheck = new NetworkAvailabliltyCheck(context);
final MapTileDownloader downloaderProvider = new MapTileDownloader(tileSource, tileWriter, networkAvailablityCheck);

// Create a custom tile provider array with the custom tile source and the custom tile providers
final MapTileProviderArray tileProviderArray = new MapTileProviderArray(tileSource, registerReceiver, new MapTileModuleProviderBase[] { fileSystemProvider, fileArchiveProvider, downloaderProvider });

// Create the mapview with the custom tile provider array
mMapView = new MapView(context, 256, new DefaultResourceProxyImpl(context), tileProviderArray);

}}}



TODO