#summary How to use in Maven projects and how to build osmdroid using Maven.

= Introduction =

This document is a begin of some documentation.  Still very much in progress.  See issue 199.


= How to use osmdroid in your Maven project =

If your project already uses Maven and you want to include osmdroid then it's as simple as

{{{
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.osmdroid</groupId>
  <artifactId>osmdroid-android</artifactId>
  <version>3.0.8</version>
</dependency>
}}}


= How to use osmdroid in your non-Maven project =

If you are not yet using Maven you can include osmdroid by downloading from the link on the home page or directly from [https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/org/osmdroid/ Maven Central] and then include the jar in your libs folder.


= How to build osmdroid using Eclipse =

TODO

http://www.sonatype.com/books/m2eclipse-book/reference/

Some basic steps:

 # Install Maven http://maven.apache.org/download.html
 # Install Maven support in Eclipse. Add http://download.eclipse.org/technology/m2e/releases as a software install repo and install the m2e support package. Can also be installed from Eclipse Marketplace.
 # Install Android configurator for Maven from Eclipse Marketplace.
 # Download the osmdroid source from subversion to a local folder. If you want to download within Maven, you will need to install a 3rd party svn plugin from http://subclipse.tigris.org/m2eclipse/1.0/
 # In Eclipse Import -> Maven -> Existing Maven project. Import osmdroid.
 # Download Android SDK dependency using Android SDK Deployer https://github.com/mosabua/maven-android-sdk-deployer  Follow instructions to deploy android sdk package to local repository.